>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>And now the host of the
nationally syndicated Coast
to Coast AM and Gaiam TV
bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
How many of us
believe in ghosts?
And what the heck might they be?
And what about angels?
Have we ever had an
angelic intervention?
Well, our guest tonight
on "Beyond Belief"
is an expert in the
paranormal, noted author.
Please welcome
Rosemary Ellen Guiley.
Rosemary.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
Good to see you.
>> ROSEMARY ELLEN
GUILEY: Thank you.
>> NOORY: How are you?
>> GUILEY: Oh, I'm
doing great, George.
Good to see you.
>> NOORY: Boy, aren't
we color-coordinated?
How about that?
>> GUILEY: The
angels planned it.
>> NOORY: Have a seat.
Welcome.
What's new?
>> GUILEY: I'm busy out
investigating all the time.
I'm doing hauntings,
entity contact experiences,
UFO sightings, mysterious
creatures, angels, fairies.
As you know, George, I'm in
everything, light, dark, angels
to zombies, and
everything in between.
So it keeps me on
the road a lot.
>> NOORY: How did you get
interested in this unusual
aspect of your career?
>> GUILEY: Like a lot of people,
I had childhood experiences,
mostly with angels and fairies.
Sometimes kids see dead people.
I didn't see them until
I got to be a lot older.
But it whetted my
curiosity about the unseen.
Because when I got
older I discovered
that not everybody has
the same experiences.
And there were people who told
me that it was all in my head,
it was all in my imagination,
yet I knew it wasn't.
So that really was
the early beginnings
that fueled my life-long
quest to understand
the unseen, the paranormal, the
mystical, and the metaphysical.
>> NOORY: I got to
know Rosemary, gosh,
years ago when we did our very
first show on Coast to Coast
called "The
Encyclopedia of Dreams."
And I think we probably
even talked a little bit
before that too.
I was rummaging
through a library,
and I came across
her book, and I
said, boy, this is fascinating.
So we'll talk about everything
today, ghosts, angels, fairies,
dreams, you name it.
>> GUILEY: You know
I like to mix it up.
>> NOORY: You do
love to mix it up.
But doesn't that tell you
there's something truly unusual
about this universe?
>> GUILEY: To me, the unseen
is present in our daily life.
We live in an
interdimensional Earth,
a multi-dimensional reality.
And most of these things are
beyond our waking awareness,
but they intrude on us
at appropriate moments.
When we need help, for example,
from divine intervention, when
we get frightened by something
that we think should not be,
like a mysterious
creature, these worlds
are right next to
ours all the time.
And I do believe that
we're entering into an age
where our consciousness is going
to expand to take it all in.
We're going to have
interdimensional neighbors
in the very near future that we
deal with on a regular basis.
>> NOORY: A little bit later
on, Rosemary's brought us some
ghostly toys we're going to
look at and see how they work.
Let's talk a little bit
about ghosts, first of all.
All of us, all of us wonder
about what's on the other side.
Does life exist beyond the
dying of the physical body?
You're a staunch believer
that, of course, it exists.
There's something
else out there.
Tell me about ghosts.
What are they?
And tell me about
the people who try
to communicate with them
through all kinds of means.
>> GUILEY: I've actually revised
my thinking on ghosts a number
times, since I've researched
over several decades now.
But most of the ghosts that we
experience in haunted places
seem to be residues left
behind by the living.
They're like memories
or energy imprints,
like you would look at a photo
album or listen to recordings.
They leave behind their
emotional imprints.
And sometimes we pick
that up in sounds,
like mysterious footsteps.
We see apparitions.
Most of the time these
are repetitive actions.
They happen over and over
again in the same place
in the same way.
But then we get
into hauntings that
are a little more active where
entities seem to be aware of us
and deliberately
engage our attention.
Some of these may
be earthbound souls,
people who, for a time,
which could stretch
from months to even years,
don't make it to the afterlife.
They remain behind because
they don't want to let go.
They've got unfinished business.
Sometimes they don't
even know they're dead.
And then we have
spirits haunting too,
but that's another category.
>> NOORY: And what
about demon hauntings?
>> GUILEY: Well, demon
hauntings are on the rise,
at least reports of them are.
Some years ago I started
getting a lot of cases
from people who were having
problematic hauntings,
activity that troubled
them, nightmares,
unpleasant phenomena.
And there seemed to be
very ugly entities present
that they could
not make go away.
I began doing a lot
of research on this,
and now it comprises a lot
of my field investigations,
what I call negative
entity hauntings.
These can happen for
a variety of reasons.
Sometimes these dark
entities attach to people.
People have weaknesses
in their boundaries,
or they've got a lot
of emotional turmoil
that enables spirits to attach.
Sometimes it's because they
move on to the wrong piece
of property.
And these entities aren't evil
per se, but they're hostile.
They own the land, so to speak.
They have an interdimensional
gateway in a place.
And human beings come
and plunk down a house
and start living in
it, and the entities
say, hey, wait a minute.
This is my territory.
>> NOORY: Get out.
>> GUILEY: And I'm going to
be very unhappy and make you
pretty miserable
until you leave.
>> NOORY: Take us through
the moment of death.
What happens on this crossover?
>> GUILEY: I believe that
we go to a between place,
a transitional place.
Because even when
death is not violent,
like it happens in
sleep or it's expected,
like through a terminal illness,
we still need a time to adjust.
So we go to a place that's
very familiar to us.
In all the literature
that's been channelled
through mediums and through
spirit communications,
this seems to be something
very much like Earth,
like a park-like setting.
In fact, it's often
called the park.
>> NOORY: Are we
aware that we're dead?
>> GUILEY: In many cases, yes.
Sometimes when we have
a violent transitions,
unexpected through accidents--
>> NOORY: A car
accident or something.
>> GUILEY: --car accidents
or natural disasters or even
an unexpected criminal assault,
we may not realize that
we're dead right away.
So we meet people
from the other side.
And we're greeted by
family and friends,
sometimes angels,
divine helpers,
and we're kind of
shown the ropes.
Sometimes people travel
through a tunnel of light.
Sometimes they just find
themselves in the park.
Then we're allowed to
adjust to the afterlife.
I believe that it reflects
our thoughts and our feelings.
And initially, people
may want a place
very much like what
they left behind.
What we're told by the dead is
that the afterlife transforms
itself instantly
to our thoughts.
So we can have the
home we really wanted.
We can have the
body that we feel
is ideal for us,
the state of age
where we felt we
were at our best.
And then I believe
that we evolve.
We get adjusted
to the afterlife,
and we discover that
there are other states
of being, other things that
we as souls are called to do.
I believe in reincarnation.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> GUILEY: So at some point, we
decide what we're going to do
in our next incarnation.
>> NOORY: Is that our
choice, to come back?
Or is there somebody up
there who says, time for you
to go back, Rosemary?
>> GUILEY: I believe
it's largely up to us.
In fact, most of the channelled
literature and communications
from the other side
indicate that we're
the ones who assess our lives
and how well we've done.
We have some sort
of spirit help.
I do believe in a unifying
divine presence, a God presence
that holds everything together
and that we are very, very much
a part of this
eternal wholeness,
and it is our goal as
souls to unite with that.
But we're often the
harshest judges we have,
in terms of how well we do.
And I believe in the
law of cause and effect
and the law of karma, that
we have to compensate.
We're rewarded for
things for the way we've
advanced our
enlightenment, and we
have to compensate
for some of the things
that we've done to hold us back.
>> NOORY: Sure.
I wrote a book with Rosemary
called "Talking to the Dead."
And she did the lion's share
of the research for us on this.
When you were putting together
the structure of that book,
did you come across
anything that
wowed you, that marvelled
you, that shocked you?
>> GUILEY: I'm often surprised
by the research that I do.
And that book was such
a fabulous project
to work on, because I've studied
spirit communications for so
many years, and we've had so
many conversations about it.
But some of the communications
were quite startling to me
about how we evolve in
the afterlife and some
of the things that are
possible for us, the alliances
that we have with
spiritual helpers
and how they assist us in
ways that we don't even
realize while we're living.
The message that kept
coming back for me is it's
so important to be
aware of that now.
Because we can
speed up our growth,
our advancement and make things
better for us in the long run
by becoming more
aware of that now.
Another thing that
astonished me were
some of the images
that have been
transmitted from the afterlife.
And as you and I
know from looking
at a lot of the evidence,
it's controversial.
Some people say, oh,
well, this can't be.
There's no way that you can
transmit photographs and even
film from the afterlife.
And yet researchers
around the world
have accumulated
piles of evidence
that's very hard to dismiss.
>> NOORY: And these figures
are showing up on digital
photography scenes,
truly unbelievable.
There was one case
where some people towed
a car that was in an
accident into a tow lot,
and then they had a
security camera on it.
And the next day as they
looked at the picture,
they saw a ghostly
figure running
around that car that had
been pulled into the lot that
had been just involved
in a fatal car accident
all over the place,
as if it were
the spirit of the dead person.
Truly amazing.
You can't make that stuff up.
>> GUILEY: We have, going
back to ancient times,
traditions that we linger
around the body after death,
no matter what kind of
transition we've had.
When people are involved
in accidents like that,
there is this shock.
And they do stay
around their body.
Sometimes they try to
get back in their bodies,
and they realize that they can't
because the body is no longer
a viable medium for the soul.
And this often shows up
in our photography now.
We've got more and
more sophisticated
equipment that's capable
of picking it up.
>> NOORY: You can
see these images.
When somebody dies, let's
say, in their sleep,
might be the most peaceful
way to go, by the way,
do they enter into
their spirit body?
Do they get out of
their dead body?
Do they see themselves in
bed going what's going on,
what is this?
Or do they just zoom off
into this other plane?
>> GUILEY: There are a
variety of ways we can exit.
And these are according
to communications
that we've gotten from
people in the afterlife.
Some say they go to
sleep and they wake up
in their new place.
And at first they think
that they must be dreaming.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> GUILEY: But it seems so real.
And it gradually
dawns on them or they
are informed by those who
come to greet them and help
the transition that they
have, in fact, left the body.
Sometimes they see
themselves departing the body
or feel themselves.
They can feel themselves drawn
up often through the head.
Sometimes they go out
through the solar plexus.
And suddenly they're
floating above the body.
And then they see a
light, which a lot
of near-death experiencers
have reported,
a light that grows
bigger and brighter
and starts pulling them in,
almost like a tractor beam.
And they go very quickly
through this tunnel of light
and emerge out into a
brand new existence.
>> NOORY: Fascinating.
Let's take some
questions for Rosemary
here on "Beyond Belief"
as we talk about ghosts.
Who's got a question here?
There you go.
Right here.
>> AUDIENCE: Do you think
that the energy of the ghostly
presence is a speeded up energy
and that's why people can't see
them?
Or is it only
people that believe
that they could
see ghosts they'd
be then able to see them?
>> NOORY: Yeah.
Who sees these entities?
>> GUILEY: Anybody
can see ghosts.
But people who are born
with a more marked degree
of psychic sensitivity have
an easier time seeing them.
Almost everybody
I've met has had
some kind of ghostly experience
at some times in their lives.
But ghosts are, they're
neither in this world
nor in the other world.
And that's why they often
appear filmy or semi-transparent
and often semi-formed.
It's very unusual, for
example, to see extremities
like fingers, like the
lower limbs, like feet.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> GUILEY: They're sort of--
>> NOORY: The legs are always--
>> GUILEY: --floating.
>> NOORY: --blurred away.
>> GUILEY: Blurry.
And sometimes the
outlines are very blurry.
There are times
when ghosts actually
appear to be very
flesh and blood.
And that's what really
startles people,
because they think that they're
looking at a real person,
and then, boom, it's
gone in an instant.
>> NOORY: The arm goes through
them or something like that.
>> GUILEY: The arm
goes through them,
or they watch them walk through
a wall or drop down through
the floor.
These are liminal forms.
They're neither here nor there.
They're sort of
caught in between.
>> NOORY: They're in limbo.
>> GUILEY: They're literally
in a type of limbo.
And when we get into the
right place in the right state
of consciousness,
we can see these.
They're around us all the time.
We've probably got ghosts here
watching the broadcast now.
>> NOORY: We may have
ghosts in the audience.
>> GUILEY: I think we probably
have an invisible audience with
us, because they like to
tune into this sort of thing.
But most the time we're
just not aware of it.
>> NOORY: All right.
Let's go to our
"Beyond Belief" cam.
We've got a question
for Rosemary.
>> AUDIENCE: Hi, Rosemary.
My name is Eva from Los Angeles.
I wanted to know
what makes people
scared of ghosts
and the afterlife.
>> NOORY: Aha.
So why are you scared of the
ghosts and the afterlife?
>> GUILEY: Well,
people startle us.
And ghosts startle us so when
they come upon us suddenly.
You know, someone creeps
up on you from behind
and you don't know
they're there,
you're going to jump when
they make themselves present.
And that's just the
way it is with ghosts.
All of a sudden, we're aware of
something that should not be,
that doesn't belong there.
And for many people,
because we don't see them
on a daily basis,
it's frightening.
We don't know what they
are, where they came from.
The media have
conditioned us to be
scared that we're
going to be attacked
or something creepy
is going to happen.
Actually, most ghosts
are very benign.
>> NOORY: The
little children EVP,
Electronic Voice Phenomena,
sounds kind of creeps me out.
How come?
>> GUILEY: Sometimes those
are spirit masquerades.
>> NOORY: They're sad.
>> GUILEY: They are sad.
And children, they can get
stuck in transition too and get
lost looking for
home, so to speak.
But sometimes it's spirits
masquerading as children.
And that's because
we're automatically
sympathetic to a child.
We want to help a child in need.
>> NOORY: They're tricking us.
>> GUILEY: We're more
likely to open up.
But it's both.
We can get very poignant audio
recordings and even photographs
of children who have left
some piece of them behind.
>> NOORY: Let's go to another
question for Rosemary Ellen
Guiley here on "Beyond Belief."
Yes, way in the back here.
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
For the past two
years, about once
a week, I've been visited while
sleeping by something that
feels just like a cat
jumping onto the bed
and settling by my chest.
Is this common?
And do you think
this may be a djinn?
>> NOORY: Well, and
let's ask you first,
have you ever had a
cat that passed on?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes, I have.
>> NOORY: Rosemary.
>> GUILEY: There are a number
of explanations that could fit
this scenario.
And first of all, it's
very common for people
to be visited by
entities, by dead people,
and by animals at night.
They often get up on the bed.
Animals will jump up.
We'll fell the
pressure coming down.
>> NOORY: You can see
the paw prints, right?
>> GUILEY: You might even see
something walking on a bed,
or you feel a depression and
even see the bed depress.
You may not see anything
like the animal form,
but you might have a
sense that it's a cat,
or you might hear some
sound that a cat would
be likely to make.
So sometimes people are
visited by their dead pets.
Sometimes spirits do masquerade
in different forms too.
And those spirits like
to play jokes on us.
They like to upset us.
They'll visit us
suddenly in the middle
of the night
attempting to scare us.
It's difficult to know
sometimes exactly what it
is until you study the
behavior for a while.
>> NOORY: Could this
have been his dead cat?
>> GUILEY: Quite possibly.
When we have ghostly
presences, like dead people
and dead animals,
it's often repetitive,
the same thing will
happen in the same way
at about the same time.
Sometimes it depends
on the length of time
that's passed since an
animal or a person died.
The longer the
time that goes by,
the less frequently
those sorts of things
happen, because the energy
from this plane of existence
starts to withdraw more and
more into the afterlife.
>> NOORY: Should he be scared?
>> GUILEY: A person should be
scared only if negative things
happen.
Of course, the threshold of
what frightens a person varies.
Some people scare very easily.
And other people
are more curious.
They want to know
what's going on.
So I tell people that it depends
on where their threshold is.
And if they ever start to
feel that something is hostile
or that bad things happen to
them, like they're scratched
or they feel suffocated
or pressed on,
these are not good signs and
may indicate a spirit presence
instead of a benign ghost.
>> NOORY: All right.
Let's take one more
question for Rosemary.
Who's got one?
Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
My son is five years old.
And since he was three, he
has an imaginary friend.
I'm not sure if it's a
friend or it's a ghost.
He calls him Ghostie.
It just shows up when he's
scared or going to school.
But lately his little cousin who
he hangs out with who's three
has also been seeing Ghostie
and has been traveling with her.
Is this a common
thing for two kids
to be seeing the same
imaginary friend?
>> GUILEY: It is common for
children to see imaginary
playmates and often in groups.
When I was a kid, I had these
kinds of experiences myself,
and I shared them with other
children that I played with.
We had invisible
playmates that came,
and they brought their little
invisible pets along with them.
A lot of times these
experiences start
to diminish as
children get older,
and eventually they usually
fade off altogether.
>> NOORY: But are they
imaginary, or are they real?
>> GUILEY: I think they're real.
We call them imaginary
because children
have vivid imaginations,
and adults frequently
don't see them as well.
In fact, parents will often say,
oh, it's just your imagination.
There's no such thing.
But it's the faculty
of imagination
that enables us to penetrate
these invisible realms,
and children are just wide open.
The things to watch out for
are is something just playful?
Is somebody entertained?
>> NOORY: Right.
Or is it something
serious, right?
>> GUILEY: Or something serious.
And you're going to know
very quickly whether or not
a child is frightened
or is scared
of certain parts of a
house because that's
where Ghostie is, for example.
My own belief is that
they're often fairies.
Fairies take a great interest
in children, and many of them
show up as playmates when
we're at a young age.
They eventually fade out of a
child's life as they get older.
>> NOORY: Well, they've got
to be friendly if a little kid
calls it Ghostie, right?
>> GUILEY: It
sounds very playful.
>> NOORY: Yeah, it does.
And so as a parent, do you
continue to allow that?
Or do you try to
strike that down?
>> GUILEY: I tell parents
to monitor the situation.
Most children will have some
sort of paranormal experiences,
and some of them talk
about them quite a bit.
Others are a little more quiet.
So it's a good idea to be not
too encouraging but accepting,
not to dismiss
things out of hand,
and to ask the child
questions about who
is Ghostie or little
green boy, for example?
And what do you do with them?
And where do they show up?
And how often you see them?
And just to monitor
the behavior.
You never want to see a child
start to get frightened by what
they can see and you can't.
Sometimes I've recommended
that parents involve
clinical professionals
to come in and help
evaluate the situation.
Sometimes a child's
paranormal and imaginary lives
can get wrapped up in a lot
of things going on in the home
as well.
>> NOORY: One of my little
granddaughters when she was
about five had an imaginary
friend called Shiboozi.
And she forced my
daughter, her mother,
to always have a dinner plate
and a chair for Shiboozi.
And so they would
have their dinner,
and there would be this
empty plate for Shiboozi.
And one day my daughter
sat down in the chair
where Shiboozi was, and
the little five-year-old
went, mom, you're
sitting on Shiboozi!
Get off her.
But they really think
they see these creatures.
>> GUILEY: Oh, absolutely.
I served food to my
invisible friends.
They were very real to me.
And interestingly,
in fairy lore,
fairies like to have
offerings of food.
That's a good way to
stay on good terms--
>> NOORY: Like Santa.
>> GUILEY: --with them.
Exactly.
>> NOORY: I love it.
>> GUILEY: Give them
something sweet.
>> NOORY: Let's talk a
little bit about angels,
angelic intervention.
Again, when we
consider that this
is a vast universe or
maybe multi-verses,
there's so many
things that go on.
It's not difficult
to imagine that there
was another plane of existence
before the physical realm,
and that could have
been the angelic realm.
Yet we hear stories
of angry angels,
fallen angels, good
guardian angels.
What's going on with them?
>> GUILEY: Angels
are a lot like us.
They have mixed motives
and mixed dispositions
according to lore.
Now today we think of angels
as all benevolent, all good.
They're helpful.
They're our guardians, our
guides, our protectors.
They help us relate
to the divine
and access the
support of the divine.
But in earlier times people had
much different views of angels.
They were God's disciplinarians.
They were the bouncers
who kept Adam and Eve out
of paradise once
God expelled them.
Some of them, in
very early lore,
weren't even all that approving
of human beings to begin with.
>> NOORY: They were jealous
of us, weren't they?
>> GUILEY: Jealous, and they
felt that humans were unworthy
of a place in paradise.
In fact, in some early
Jewish stories about angels,
when God decides to
create human beings
he creates a group of angels
and wants their opinion on it.
And they say, oh,
not a good idea.
So that makes him mad.
>> NOORY: You don't want
to make those humans.
>> GUILEY: He burns them up,
and he creates another group
of angels and asks
them the same question.
They say, oh, no,
not a good idea.
And he does the
same thing to them.
So he gets a third
group of angels.
Well, they know what happened
to the first two groups,
so they say, hey,
OK, great idea.
Well, then, when Adam
and Eve fall and they're
expelled from paradise, the
angels come back to God,
and they say, well, weren't
the first guys right?
It might not have
been such a good idea.
But God says, no,
I pledged that I'm
going to support and
sustain humanity,
and they have my covenant now.
And so I expect
all of you to help.
>> NOORY: I get so many calls
on Coast to Coast when we go
into our angelic
stories from people.
And I'll always remember
this one truck driver called
and said that he had
fallen asleep at the wheel,
and when he woke up he was just
about ready to go over a cliff.
And he really thought it
was curtain times for him.
But he said, George, out of the
blue a hand came and grabbed
my steering wheel, pulled
it back, and on the road
I went, and I was saved.
There was nobody
else in the cab.
He was alone, yet he
distinctly saw another hand
grab that wheel and
pull him back on.
That's intervention, isn't it?
>> GUILEY: It is.
And it is the kind
of intervention
that we ascribe to angels.
I've interviewed
many people who've
had similar stories, saved
from the brink of disaster
by a heavenly hand.
Other times that angel
show up to rescue us
are in the form of
mysterious stranger.
You're in a crisis situation.
And you have to realize
that something beaming down
from the heavens might not
be a good idea at that point.
So the angel shows up as
someone who's like us.
>> NOORY: And disappears.
>> GUILEY: Looks like a human
being, solves the problem.
There's always something
very unusual about them,
and they mysteriously disappear.
If people try to make an effort
to find them, no such person.
>> NOORY: Perfect example, a
guy is swimming in the ocean.
Why, I don't know.
And he went out
a little too far.
He got pulled away.
And he was going down.
He was drowning.
He was 200 or 300 feet
offshore, nobody around him,
and he said this
was curtain time.
Yet he sees a hand break through
the water, and he sees it.
He's under water.
He grabs the hand.
It pulls him back up to the top.
He's coughing, he's
gagging, but he's OK.
And he's starting to
swim back to shore,
and he turns to thank the
guy who came out to get him.
There's nobody there.
Nobody there.
And his first thought was, oh my
god, the guy drowned saving me.
But people on shore who were
looking at this situation
said, no, you went
down by yourself,
and we saw you pop back up,
and you seemed to be OK.
But there was nobody
else out there.
What did he see?
What was there?
>> GUILEY: Sometimes people
don't see anything but they
feel a presence.
And it's described as
light warmth, something
that's divine.
They recognize they're getting
some sort of divine help.
They may see something
like the heavenly hand
that grabs the
wheel, for example.
I've interviewed a lot of
people to recount step by step
as best as they can the crisis.
And in almost all cases, even
if they're not consciously
praying at the last moment
for God please help me,
an unconscious prayer
goes out for help.
And there seems to be
this moment of connection
with the help then that comes.
People often ask, well, why
aren't these things more
democratic?
Why do some people get the
rescue and other people--
>> NOORY: Others don't.
>> GUILEY: --not?
There aren't any
good answers to that.
We have to accept, I
think, the divine workings
of a plan for everyone
and that we're
meant to have the
experiences we do.
Maybe for the people who
have the rescue that's part
of their life learning,
their soul learning,
that they need to have
that experience to...
to recognize a greater
connection to the divine whole.
>> NOORY: Do you have to believe
in angels in order to summon
them up or to get
that kind of help?
>> GUILEY: Absolutely not.
In fact, atheists have had
experiences with angels.
Agnostics have.
People of different faiths
have all kinds of experiences
with helping beings.
They may not call them
angels, but they're all
the same, that is they're
an intermediary presence
or force that acts on our behalf
or to intervene in our lives
to have a miracle happen
or some dramatic change.
But they can happen to anyone.
Sometimes they make
religious believers out
of the unbelieving.
>> NOORY: Who were
the fallen angels?
>> GUILEY: The fallen angels
are now called demons.
And in Christianity it
started with a fall of pride.
And Lucifer is the angel who
is a glorious angel in heaven
but has a lot of pride
and ego and gets cast out
of heaven for that.
And some of the heavenly
host, about one third
of the heavily host,
follow him down.
>> NOORY: They go with him.
>> GUILEY: They go with him
because they have allegiance
to him.
And so they all
fall to Earth, where
they are condemned to
roam the netherworld.
And they become the demonic,
the tormentors of human beings.
There are similar stories in
other mythologies and faiths
as well about beings
who fall from grace
and become the
testers of humanity.
So their role really
serves a purpose.
It's the purpose of
making us understand
the difference between
right and wrong
and the choices that we make to
go in one direction or another.
>> NOORY: Well, and that's one
of the things that fascinates
me, Rosemary, the fact that
other belief systems on this
planet have similar views,
similar stories about what had
happened a long time ago.
How these stories
are passed down
is absolutely
mind-boggling, yet they're
all very similar, about
fallen angels, about demons,
about evil, about
good, about bad.
Something on this planet
happened a very, very long time
ago, don't you think?
>> GUILEY: Indeed.
The common roots that all of
these stories and experiences
share indicate that
there's truth to them all
and that we human beings
have had the same experiences
with the light side
and the dark side that
have shaped our destinies,
personal and collective.
>> NOORY: Tell me
about guardian angels.
Do we all have them?
>> GUILEY: I do believe that
we have guardian angels.
In fact, I believe that
everyone has multiple angels
around them, that
there are angels
who are born with us who have
taken on the duty of following
us through an incarnation
to be in the background.
And unless we develop a
relationship with angels,
we're likely not to even
realize that they're there.
They're sort of
like the generator
humming in the background.
But as we go through life
and we meet challenges
and we take on new tasks in
relationships and in our jobs
and in our personal growth, then
that calls in another angels
to assist with that.
So a lot of angels come and go
as we change throughout life.
I believe we're never away
from divine help and support.
>> NOORY: Do they
have free will?
Can they do what
they want to do?
>> GUILEY: There are different
stories about the free will
of angels.
In most accounts, they
do not have free will.
They follow the will of God.
And yet the fall of
angels involves free will.
It's the choice.
It's the choice
to have the pride.
And there are other stories
about angels making choices,
for example the early
stories that I mentioned
about should human
beings be created.
Well, the angels have
a choice to answer,
and they make that choice.
So my own feeling is I believe
that angels are the guardians
and caretakers of divine order.
One of their chief jobs is to
maintain harmony and wholeness
throughout creation.
So that really is following
the will of the divine.
>> NOORY: What about fairies?
When you think of
fairies, you think
of Tinkerbell floating
all over the place.
What are they?
>> GUILEY: Fairies belong
to another class of beings.
Sometimes people
think that they're
the same as angels because
they've been drawn with wings
or seen with wings.
>> NOORY: And they're
little, right?
>> GUILEY: Some of them are.
Some of them are
actually quite big.
I have seen big fairies.
But they're a race of
supernatural entities
who belong on this
interdimensional Earth.
And we find stories of
them all over the planet,
going back to ancient times.
In almost all accounts they
were here first before us.
And they lost out over
time as humanity advanced
and as humanity
populated the Earth.
There were conflicts.
And these fairies retreated
further and further
into the background
until literally they
were in another dimension.
And in folklore we
find that explained
in fairies underground,
the fairyland that's
down through the
root of the trees,
for example, where they
live in another one
of these liminal
worlds where they
have a different
reality than we do.
They have powers
that we don't have.
But they have access to
our world, so we see them.
>> NOORY: The Irish folklore,
as they talk about leprechauns,
might they be talking
about the fairies?
Are they one in the same?
>> GUILEY: Leprechauns
are a type of fairy.
They're solitary, and
they're a little apart
from other groups of fairies.
Fairies are often seen in
bands and small groups,
but the leprechauns
are solitary.
And they are part of fairy lore.
Some fairies don't have a
very pleasant disposition,
and they're likely to be tricky.
Our ancestors knew that
they could be quite vengeful
when they were wronged.
And other fairies
are happy and merry.
They like to
entertain themselves,
and they can even be
helpful to people.
>> NOORY: Well, Hollywood hasn't
made leprechauns look very
pleasant lately.
I'll always remember
the good one years ago
when I was a kid, "Darby
O'Gill and the Little People."
Do you remember that one?
>> GUILEY: I do.
That was one of my
favorite movies.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
It was a classic.
Now that was fun.
But then all of a
sudden leprechauns
evolved into these very
mean, spiteful creatures.
Are there some like that?
>> GUILEY: In lore, yes, if
you read the accounts from
our ancestors.
And what we know about
fairies here in our culture
comes primarily from Celtic
lore, Ireland, Scotland,
the United Kingdom, and even
parts of northern Europe.
And these beings, they're
like human beings, the good,
the bad, and the ugly.
Some of them are nice.
Some of them are not so nice.
Some of them, it depends on
literally what side of the bed
they got up on.
>> NOORY: Do they eat and sleep
and cry and things like that?
>> GUILEY: They do.
They do have their own
food in their own realm.
Accounts of people who
have visited fairyland
and miraculously come
back-- because it's often--
>> NOORY: Ah.
You may--
>> GUILEY: A one-way--
>> NOORY: --not come back.
>> GUILEY: --trip.
>> NOORY: Really?
>> GUILEY: It's often
a one-way trip--
>> NOORY: That's not good.
>> GUILEY: --once
you get down there.
It's not.
>> NOORY: They keep you?
>> GUILEY: They do.
You are trapped forever in
fairyland, by most accounts.
But some individuals
have escaped.
And they say fairies live in
this beautiful enchanted world
where it's like
perpetual twilight.
The sky is just lit with
very nice soothing colors.
They have their own food,
which is far more delicious
than anything we could imagine.
They have their own societies,
their families, their children,
their own courts of law.
It's like a parallel world,
only they're different than us.
>> NOORY: You know, 100,000
people disappear on this planet
every year.
They just simply vanish.
And I've always wondered,
where the heck do they go?
Sure, maybe they're
abducted by ETs.
Who knows?
But I wonder if they're
stuck in the fairyland.
>> GUILEY: I'm convinced that an
unknown portion of our missing
persons falls down
the rabbit hole.
They go into fairyland.
>> NOORY: That's frightening.
>> GUILEY: They go into one
of these other dimensions.
They might be
kidnapped by entities.
They might stumble through
a multi-dimensional portal
and not be able to
find their way back.
>> NOORY: We're going to
take your questions now.
Yes, right here.
>> AUDIENCE: Hi.
I'm wondering if you see
any angels around me.
And how would I be able
to communicate with them
or see them back?
>> GUILEY: The best way to
communicate with angels is
through meditation,
simply by asking.
If we spend time in
meditation every day
and ask for the angels who are
around us to make themselves
known, we will begin to
have contact with them.
And it often starts with
just a sense of a presence.
We're likely not to see angels.
We're more likely to feel their
presence and to hear them.
>> NOORY: Could they be
around her right now?
>> GUILEY: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Our angels are always
with us, and sometimes we
can actually see them.
We might see them around us.
They tend to be very brilliant.
When I have actually seen angels
present in the environment,
their light is so bright it's
hard to look at directly.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
>> GUILEY: You have
to avert your vision.
So the angels are going to
present themselves in ways
that we are able to comprehend
them, to perceive them,
and to accommodate
their presence,
and that's going to differ
for every individual.
But prayer and meditation,
also asking your dreams--
from all of our
discussions on dreams,
we have many
spiritual experiences
in the course of dreams,
and angels will often
show up in them as well.
>> NOORY: It's almost as if they
are that little voice you hear
telling you right and wrong or
giving you some gut instincts.
>> GUILEY: The early
precursors of angels,
the Greeks had beliefs in
beings called the daemonus,
and they weren't demons per
se, but they were intervening
entities.
And they literally
whispered in your ear.
Some of them believed
that they had
a good one in one ear and
a bad one in the other ear,
and they were--
>> NOORY: Tugging away at you.
>> GUILEY: --vying
for attention.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
You never know.
Let's use our technology and
go to our "Beyond Belief" cam
here with Rosemary
for a question.
>> AUDIENCE: Hi, Rosemary.
I'm Michael from Studio
City, California.
And I'm wondering if you
remember the first time you
encountered someone
from the other side.
>> GUILEY: The first time that
I encountered someone from
the other side was actually
when I was an adult.
When I was younger, I had
more spirit experiences.
I had the fairies.
I had angels.
And it's always
been easier for me
to tune in to the spirit world.
But as I got older and I
got deeper into my study
and developing my
psychic ability,
I encountered the
spirits of dead people.
And the first encounter
actually happened in a home
that I moved into
in New York state,
and we hadn't been
there very long.
I was reading one night, and
it was the proverbial dark
and stormy night.
>> NOORY: Right, exactly.
Perfect setting.
>> GUILEY: I suddenly became
aware that there was a presence
in the room.
Now my husband was upstairs.
I was the only
person downstairs.
And I looked up, because I
thought someone had actually
entered the room, and
I didn't see anything.
But the feeling didn't go away.
And then I looked
up again, and I
saw an apparition of what
appeared to be a man.
And all I could see was
the top part of him.
And if he'd been
a real person, he
would have been over
seven feet tall,
because he was
floating up in the air.
And I was so startled by it
that I threw the book in the air
and jumped up off the couch
and ran out of the room.
And when I came back, of
course the apparition was gone.
But I believe that
it was a person who--
it was a very old house
that we had moved into--
and that it might have been a
previous owner, a personality
who'd been associated
by the house.
Very benign.
It was just sort of like he was
checking in on me like, well,
who are you living
in my house now?
>> NOORY: Exactly.
I was here first, right?
>> GUILEY: Exactly.
>> NOORY: How about another
question for Rosemary Ellen
Guiley?
Yes, ma'am.
>> AUDIENCE: Hi, Rosemary.
I grew up in a haunted house
where my sisters were called
by the piano in the
basement, and they
said it was Bloody Bones.
And every time they
came down the stairs,
they were drawn from the
upstairs through the kitchen
down the stairs.
A lady in white would stop them
and take them back upstairs,
and so they never saw him.
Then when they were in their
adolescence, on Easter Sunday,
they were in their bedroom
in the basement in the dark,
and a light appeared in the
mirror, and it grew large.
And then the entity got
on top of my sister.
And she had on a necklace with
the Virgin Mary on the string,
and it started to squeeze down
into that part of her neck
and choke her.
And she finally was able
to ask Jesus to save her,
and it went away.
And our house was blessed.
And after the priest came, the
entity went around the room
where we all were watching TV
and up the stairs, outside up
to the patio on the roof,
and the next morning we
found dead birds up there.
>> NOORY: Jeez.
>> AUDIENCE: And when I was
17, I was sleeping down there,
and this entity
got on top of me.
And I was very glad I didn't
have that necklace on.
But I was able to finally
choke out the words for him
to be gone, and I never
slept there again.
Later I saw in the
corner of my eye
a lady in white who I
thought was my daughter.
And it wasn't my daughter.
So I wonder what
you thought of that.
>> NOORY: What are these things?
>> GUILEY: They're
spirits, not human beings.
I run into these cases
quite frequently now
in my investigations that have a
similar scenario, where there's
a variety of unpleasant
phenomena going on
in a home, multiple
manifestations,
like the lady in white,
dark entities, shadows.
>> NOORY: The old hag syndrome.
>> GUILEY: The old hag,
creepy-looking creatures
around.
And sometimes it's one entity
taking all of those forms.
These entities are
negative presences
that have lodged in a place.
They don't attach to people
and follow them around
as much as they stay in place
and torment whoever is there.
They will do things
like suffocate,
create horrible
smells and sounds,
disembodied voices, bad
dreams, and things like that.
A variety of remedies
can be effective.
Sometimes people call
on religious help,
religious exorcisms
and cleansings, prayers
to religious figures.
And that will often push the
phenomena away, make it abate.
Sometimes it will
diminish to the point
where it seems like
it's gone away,
but if those people leave
and new people come in,
it's likely to start up again.
>> NOORY: Why do they
try choking people?
What are they trying to do here?
>> GUILEY: I believe
that they vampirize us,
and they do that in
a number of ways.
One is by choking.
It gets us to ratchet up
our fear tremendously.
>> NOORY: Sure.
>> GUILEY: We're in
fear and in panic.
And that's a big adrenaline
rush through the system.
I believe that entities
vampirize that energy off
of us.
They prey on fear and on panic.
And the body's emotional
and physiological responses
that happened with that seems
to be energy food for them.
And that's what keeps them
viable in an environment.
>> NOORY: Well,
when this occurs,
where you invoke the name
of Jesus, for example,
why do they seem to run away?
How does that name
scare them off?
>> GUILEY: It's puzzling,
because there's no uniform
formula for this.
And in fact, I have
many cases where
people invoke the same prayers,
the same religious remedies,
and nothing happens.
It seems like the
entities resist that.
They're almost like viruses--
>> NOORY: They're strong
enough to fight that.
>> GUILEY: --that develop
a resistance to remedies.
So oftentimes we
have to experiment.
And sometimes we have to bring
in folklore remedies that
have some religious
basis to them
but go back to ancient times.
Sometimes we have to
experiment with different kinds
of religious exorcisms.
It depends on the entity
itself, how strong it is,
and why it's acting out.
Is it just a malevolent
kind of demonic being?
Is it assailing people because
they're on its territory?
Sometimes we don't
have any good answers.
>> NOORY: When we come
back on "Beyond Belief,"
Rosemary's going to show us
the ghost machine and also do
a little demonstration
with a Ouija board,
something I'm not
looking forward to.
We'll be back in a moment.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
And welcome back
to "Beyond Belief."
We're with Rosemary
Ellen Guiley,
and she's brought us a
couple interesting things.
One, of course, is
a ghost machine,
which we'll get into
in just a moment.
And then the other apparatus
is something I really detest.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
It's a Ouija board.
I'll tell you an
interesting story, when
I was doing Coast to Coast
back a very long time ago,
I had a Ouija board in
my studio in St. Louis.
Everything went wrong.
I had never had any
technical glitches before,
but my computers went out.
The board that we set up
the audio system with,
I was having problems with that.
It was just a disaster.
I had my producer take
the Ouija board out.
And as soon as it left the
room, the computers worked,
the boards worked, and
everything was fine.
After the program
I told him, I said,
Howard, get rid of this thing.
I don't want it around.
He gave it to one
of our news guys.
His name was Darryl.
He gave it to him as a present.
Darryl was all excited
to get the Ouija board.
Two weeks later, Darryl was
fired, lost his job, lost
his relationship.
And we're convinced
to this day it
was because of the Ouija board.
So Rosemary, why do
you carry this around?
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>> GUILEY: Well, I would like
to say that I was stopped by TSA
on the plane going through
security to get on the plane.
>> NOORY: Because of this?
>> GUILEY: Well, I wasn't going
to put in unlocked baggage
either of my toys, so
I had them in carry-on.
And they went through the
x-ray machine a couple times,
and the the guy takes
it off, and he says,
what's in this bag?
I said, a Ouija board
and a ghost hunting box.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>> NOORY: I don't know how they
would let you on a plane with
this thing.
>> GUILEY: It does look like
it's going to blow something
up.
But they tested
it for explosives,
and I thought they were
going to take it apart.
Anyway, well, the
Ouija board, it's
probably the most infamous
device in the paranormal
because of the reputation it's
acquired, largely unfairly,
I might add.
>> NOORY: Oh, sure.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>> GUILEY: It's a tool.
It's a tool.
And as a tool, it's neutral.
But it does have a
very checkered history.
As an investigation device, as
a spirit communication device,
it's not very practical,
because it's slow.
It spells out answers to
questions letter by letter.
And sometimes you just get
gibberish or nothing at all.
The ghost box is far more
efficient in that regard.
But many people are
fascinated by the Ouija board.
It's been around for a
little over 100 years now,
and it has an
incredible history--
>> NOORY: Who in the
heck would invent it?
>> GUILEY: --of mayhem.
>> NOORY: Who would
invent this thing?
>> GUILEY: Actually, it evolved
out of a number of spirit
communication devices.
This little pointer
here on the board,
which is called the
planchette, actually
had a precursor in
spiritualism days
with a device called
the planchette, which
was shaped very
similarly, and it
had three very long legs on it.
This was a pencil.
And that you put your
hands on the device
on a blank piece of
paper and asked spirits
to answer questions, and
hopefully your movements
would literally
write out an answer.
Well, this is modified
now on the Ouija board.
We've had many pointing
devices throughout history
where we have asked the gods
to divine the future for us
by pointing to things.
And so the Ouija board
actually evolved out of that.
Some very smart businessmen
in the late 1800s
read about these pointing
devices that were literally
taking the country by
storm, especially in Ohio.
Ohio was a hotbed of
spiritualism in the 1800s.
And newspaper articles about
the pointing devices they used
caught the attention of some
toy manufacturers in Baltimore.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> GUILEY: And they
saw a brilliant idea.
>> NOORY: And they
made a fortune.
>> GUILEY: Made a fortune,
but not without a very strange
and tumultuous history.
Internally in the company,
there was lots of conflict.
>> NOORY: Infighting?
>> GUILEY: Infighting.
The original patent holders
got out of the business.
A man who was a
painter and a varnisher
by trade-- and his name
is on the board today,
William Fuld-- took
over the toy company
and literally turned the Ouija
board into a global media hit.
>> NOORY: I got to tell you, if
I was on a plane with you and I
had heard that you had brought
a Ouija board on that plane,
I would have gotten off.
I would have taken
a different flight.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
All right.
Let's grab a volunteer
from our audience.
Anybody out there that
wants to take a chance?
Yes, come on up.
What's your name?
>> AUDIENCE: Juan.
>> NOORY: Juan, come on over.
Have a seat here.
And Rosemary, why don't we
just-- it may or may not work--
have a seat, Juan--
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> NOORY: --but explain what
you and Juan have to do here.
>> GUILEY: The board is best
worked by two or more people.
Two is really ideal.
You can have as many
as four, but you've all
got to put your fingers
on the planchette.
One person can work a board too,
but two blending their energy--
Juan, what you and I
will do is concentrate
on communicating with
the spirit world.
And sometimes a door
opens right away,
and the pointer
begins moving around
and stops on various
letters, and you
might get something spelled out.
A lot of times you
just get gibberish.
But the idea is to put
your fingers very lightly
on the planchette.
Critics have said, oh,
people move this around.
Well, I have worked
the Ouija board
at times where the
pointer is literally
sailing around the board.
You can hardly keep
your fingers on it.
So what is moving this pointer?
Well, it may be a spirit.
>> NOORY: Well,
let's try it out.
>> GUILEY: Let's give it a shot.
>> NOORY: But
before we go, Juan,
raise your right hand and
promise not to be upset with me
if anything should happen to
you because of the Ouija board.
>> AUDIENCE: I promise not to
be upset with you if anything
should happen because
of the Ouija board.
>> NOORY: Thank you, Juan.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
Now take it away.
That's my little
disclaimer for the moment.
>> GUILEY: Now I've used
these since I was a kid.
Not a whole lot, because I find
other things more effective.
And I've been cursed
out by spirits,
and I've gotten
a nasty messages,
but I've never
felt that anything
has followed me around.
OK.
So Juan, I'm going to put the
planchette kind of like this
so we can get it pointing.
>> AUDIENCE: OK.
>> GUILEY: Or could
we turn the board?
Would that be--
>> NOORY: Yeah, absolutely.
>> GUILEY: --all right?
>> NOORY: Yeah.
>> GUILEY: Let's turn
the board like this.
And put your fingers
lightly on the planchette,
and just concentrate.
It's a good idea
to ask questions.
Now the Ouija board
will spell things out.
It's got numbers,
yes, no, goodbye,
and sometimes
it'll point to yes.
It's often a good idea to
ask yes or no questions.
>> NOORY: It's already moving.
And neither one of
you is pushing it.
>> GUILEY: So what I did was
I asked for something to start
communicating, and
it's pointing to yes.
Yes, something is here who
wishes to make itself known.
And can you spell your
name out for us, please?
Now I've always used the
clear window in the pointer
as the indication
for the letter.
So it stopped on O. Spell
your name out, please.
O-B. Obi-Wan Kenobi.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
And we'll see if we
get any-- sometimes
the planchette
will wander around,
and you have to tell them.
You have to discipline them and
say, look, speed it up a bit.
Give us something--
O-B-O. O-B-O 1.
Now to me that's not making
a whole lot of sense.
>> NOORY: It's Obi-One Kenobi.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>> GUILEY: And we just
fell off the board there,
so I have to give
the planchette--
sometimes when you have this on
a big table and you get a lot
of spirit activity, it will
fly off the board and sometimes
even off the table.
So spirit--
>> NOORY: What if the spirit's
from a different planet and his
name was Obo 1?
>> GUILEY: Anything's possible.
When you're dealing with
non-human communicators
in many cases, what
makes sense to them
is not going to
make sense to us.
So let me ask a question here.
Obo 1--
>> NOORY: Obo 1.
That's his name.
>> GUILEY: Obo 1,
is that your name?
Yes or no?
>> NOORY: It's pointing
to the yes right there.
>> GUILEY: OK.
>> NOORY: See?
I told you.
He's from another place.
>> GUILEY: Are you
a helpful spirit?
>> NOORY: Can I ask a question?
>> GUILEY: Oh, absolutely.
>> NOORY: Obo?
Do you watch "Beyond Belief"?
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
He said yes, so they're
picking it up somewhere.
>> GUILEY: One of your
biggest fans, George,
and you didn't know it.
>> NOORY: Probably is.
So they are interested in media.
>> GUILEY: There's an audience
in another dimension watching
this show.
>> NOORY: Obo, are
you good or evil?
Good or evil?
>> GUILEY: So we'll probably
have to spell out something.
Good or evil?
>> NOORY: What is that letter?
>> GUILEY: Uh-oh.
E.
>> NOORY: E.
[AUDIENCE GROANS]
That's all we need.
>> GUILEY: Well, I've found
in studying the Ouija--
and I actually did a book on
the Ouija with an investigator
friend of mine called
"Ouija Gone Wild,"
and we compiled weird stories
from the 100-year history
of the Ouija board.
And some of them are
kind of predictable,
people who commit crimes
because of messages
they got on the board.
>> NOORY: I'm telling
you, this is weird.
I think we've had enough
of the Ouija board.
>> GUILEY: OK.
Well, it started to
spell E, and then I
think it got a little
distracted with me.
So it's kind of going
around in circles.
>> NOORY: That's something.
All right.
Let's talk about
your voices machine.
Juan, thank you.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> NOORY: You take care.
>> GUILEY: You are excellent,
excellent board operator.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
>> NOORY: So Obo
1 might be evil,
which means that he's probably
playing a little trickster game
here, comes across as nice?
>> GUILEY: It could
just be a trickster.
>> NOORY: And them boom.
>> GUILEY: It could just
be a trickster saying, hey,
I'm a bad guy, so be afraid.
But what I've often found
with Ouija board problems--
and many people have
no problems at all--
is that an entity will start
out being Mr. Nice Guy,
very friendly, jokey,
say things that
are true that can be validated,
so the person begins to trust,
and then all of a
sudden it gets bad.
>> NOORY: Then it
gets mean, yeah.
>> GUILEY: And the personality
gets darker and manipulative.
It makes threatening messages.
I'm watching you all the time.
I'm going to kill you.
I'm going to kill your family.
And people start to panic.
>> NOORY: Yeah, that's scary.
About a minute or so ago.
Voice box machine,
this communicates
with the other side?
>> GUILEY: It does.
This is one of my
favorite devices.
It's real time communication
with spirits and the dead.
And it's a radio scan device.
This is called a mini box.
And it runs on the
principle of a radio that
moves very fast up
and down the band,
like you would
take a manual tuner
and rip it up and down
the band very fast.
It creates a jumble
of noise that's
a background sound
that spirit voices have
the capability of manipulating.
And they speak on
top of that scan.
>> NOORY: And it comes
right through here.
>> GUILEY: And unfortunately,
in a studio like this,
we're not going to get
the reception to be able
to demonstrate it.
But I take this out on
my field investigations,
and I can have direct two-way
real time communication
with the dead and with beings
who identify themselves
as non-human personalities.
>> NOORY: And technology
has allowed us to do this.
>> GUILEY: Technology--
>> NOORY: This is amazing.
>> GUILEY: --is advancing.
And George and I have
a lot of material
in talking to the dead on
this emerging technology.
It's fascinating.
>> NOORY: I love it.
>> GUILEY: I think someday we
are going to get that proof
of the afterlife that
will be undeniable,
and this is one of the devices
that could take us there.
>> NOORY: Rosemary, thanks
for being on "Beyond Belief."
>> GUILEY: Oh, a
pleasure George.
>> NOORY: Rosemary
Ellen Guiley, folks.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]
Keep the Ouija
board away from me.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
Better Juan do it than me.
Hey, thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
And the next time you're
dealing with the spirit world,
well, just remember that not all
of them are friendly entities.
Thanks.
[AUDIENCE APPLAUDING]